So let's have a look at the routing set up
I chose to use, I will first of all create a new file which I'll name routes.js and that is
optional,
you don't need to outsource your routes there
but before we can set up any routes, we first need to install the vue router, right?
So let's run npm install --save
vue router, like that
and that should give us the vue router and with the router now installed, we can go to the main.js file
and here, I want to add a new import, thank you where I import the vue router from the vue router package
here and then you learned that we first need to run
vue use vue router in order to use it,
so let's do that here.
This enables the vue router
and next, we want to set up the router, for that
we need some files,
some routes I should say, so I'm going to set them up here in extra file, export const routes, give this
of course any name you like and then routes are really just an array of objects as you learned.
So we need three routes now, to our home page, to the portfolio and to the stocks page,
so for that, I'll set up the main route first, the empty path or just this slash here which will
lead to our home page and there, I want to load a component and this component I want to load is of course
the home component.
So here, I'll import home from
and now it's from the components file from the home.vue file,
so this now allows me to set the home component there for this first route.
The second route shall now lead to the portfolio, let's say
so slash portfolio shall load the portfolio component of course,
so for that let's go up to our imports and add the import here of our portfolio from and now this lives in the
components folder in the portfolio folder in the portfolio.vue file,
so with that we can add the portfolio component.
And lastly the last route we want to set up, now that of course has to lead to our stocks,
so here let's links to our stocks and then adds the stocks component here,
so let me add this last import, import stocks from components stocks, whoops, stocks and then the stock,
not that file, this file, stocks.vue file
and then of course add it here.
So these are the three routes I want to use in this application, no nested routes or anything like that
because routing whilst in this application is pretty straightforward.
So with that, we get all the routes configured here,
now since we export this, we can go back to the main.js file and import our routes here.
So import the routes with the curly brace syntax since it's a named export from the routes.js
.
file and we can then use our router or create our router here in a constant let's say by running
new vue router.
Important is that you used vue use before and then we pass an object where we configure our
router,
now how do we want to configure it?
Well I want to set the mode to history to get these nicer URLs and don't have the hash tag
and then I'll set my routes,
so since I'm importing them, I could say routes routes or again use this ES6 syntax of just setting up
routes. And with that,
the routes are configured
and now of course we also have to add the router here to our vue instance, again with the shortcut
instead of writing router router, since we named this constant, we want to use as a value router as well.
With that, the router has been added to the application,
we got our routes.
Now let's see this in action by going to the app.vue file and adding a first router vue here so a place
where we can load these, well these routes. And with that in place, let's run our server with npm run dev,
the development workflow and the server and we see the home component.
Now let's manually enter portfolio here, portfolio component and if we visit /stocks, the stocks component.
So with that, we got our first components in place and routing to go there. With that in the next video, let's
think about the next steps and start working on them.